# Extract, Translate, and Load

The formal process used in Data Warehouse environments for gathering, cleaning and storing data to be used for later analysis. 

This process provides a framework that can be used in Data Analytics and reporting over time. 

---

# Ingesting data using DB Browser

1. Create a new database - I am calling mine `cmspdp.sqlite`
1. Use the File / Import command and select `plan information sample.txt`
1. Stop - notice anything wrong
1. Set your import prferences
    1. Name your table (you don't want spaces)
    1. Column names
    1. Field seperator
    1. Quote character
1. Now you can run the import.

---

# Reviewing your data

What do you notice first?

I notice the repeating values.

This is sometimes the correct answer - only you can decided. I chose to normalize this data. 

---

# Second issue

The plan id and segment id have been converted to integers. How can this cause a problem?

Integers can't store leading zeros. 

This means we cannot link from our cleaned table to our source table if we let this stand. 

---

# Exploring using the "don't detect option"

This feature is unique to SQLite. The table created by this method does not have data types. 

Crazy!

No data types. 

Yet this is perfect for a staging table. 

---

# What are these datatypes?

SQLite's support of strong data types and data classes means that we can have the best of both worlds. 

We can limit the data when we know specifics about it or we can leave it loose for testing and prototyping. 

## Warning

You will want to use strong typing before sending your data to a reporting platform. Doing this will prevent errors or faulty analysis in the presentation layer. 

---

# Let's create a table from what we have learned so far. 

``` sql
create table planInformation (
	Id int primary key not null
	,contractId char(5)
	,planId char(3)
	,segmentId char(3)
	,contractName TEXT
	,planName TEXT
	,formularyId char(8)
	,premium decimal(12,4)
	,deductible decimal(12,4)
	,icl decimal(12,4)
	,pharmacyDataSupressed char(1)
	)

```

---

# And load our data (Insert into)

``` sql

insert into planInformation (
	contractId
	,planId
	,segmentId
	,contractName
	,planName
	,formularyId
	,premium
	,deductible
	,icl
    ,snp
	,pharmacyDataSupressed
	)
select distinct 
	CONTRACT_ID
	,PLAN_ID
	,SEGMENT_ID
	,CONTRACT_NAME
	,PLAN_NAME
	,FORMULARY_ID
	,PREMIUM
	,DEDUCTIBLE
	,ICL
    ,SNP
	,PLAN_SUPPRESSED_YN
	from [plan information sample]
	
```

# Why do we have an id column with data?

If we create a column with the combination of INTEGER and PRIMARY KEY SQLite will assign a number if a null is inserted. 

https://www.sqlite.org/autoinc.html

---

# Time to create our location table

``` sql

create table planInformationLocation (
	planId INTEGER NOT NULL
	,maRegionCode char(2)
	,pdpRegionCode char(2)
	,stateCode char(2)
	,countyCode char(5)
	)
	
```

---

# And insert our data

``` sql

insert into planInformationLocation (
	planId
	, maRegionCode
	, pdpRegionCode
	, stateCode
	, countyCode
	)
select p.id
	,ps.MA_REGION_CODE
	,ps.PDP_REGION_CODE
	,ps.STATE
	,ps.COUNTY_CODE
	from [plan information sample] ps
		inner join planInformation p
			on ps.CONTRACT_ID = p.contractId
			and ps.PLAN_ID = p.planId
			and ps.SEGMENT_ID = p.segmentId

```

---

# Next table - An exercise

## Beneficiary Cost

1. Using file import without autodetecting create a staging table
1. Write a 

---
# Citizen Data Scientist

The process of Extract, Load and Translate is a competing paradigm for rapid discovery. 

This method is preferred when using the full versions of Tableau and PowerBI to connect to APIs directly, Load the data into the workbook, and then do your cleaning and transformation in the reporting tool. 