# STAR Method Interview Prep & Sample Questions

Our clients have identified five competencies indicative of success throughout our clients. These serve as the essential characteristics we look for in new hires:

1. **Relationships and Networks** – Within our clients, you’ll regularly engage with teams and networks across geographic, political, demographic, functional and other cultural and organizational boundaries.
2. **Courage and Candor** – While facing some of the world’s toughest challenges head on and being able to respectfully disagree and present alternative solutions.
3. **Agility** – in the dynamic industry we operate within, flexibility and the ability to adapt to new situations creates more opportunities along the way for our customers and your career.
4. **Initiative and Foresight** – Recognizing the opportunities ahead of you and acting on them can mean the difference between the next great breakthrough and a missed opportunity.
5. **Results Orientation** – Delivering results is integral to both your career success and our success as a company. We look for people that want to contribute from day one and turn strategies and commitments into realities.

<br>

The STAR method is a structured manner of responding to a behavioral-based interview question by discussing the specific situation, task, action, and result of the situation you are describing.

  - **Situation: -** Describe the situation that you were in or the task that you needed to accomplish. You must describe a specific event or situation, not a generalized description of what you have done in the past. Be sure to give enough detail for the interviewer to understand. This situation can be from a previous job, from a volunteer experience, or any relevant event.
  - **Task: -** What goal were you working toward?
  - **Action: -** Describe the actions you took to address the situation with an appropriate amount of detail and keep the focus on YOU. What specific steps did you take and what was your particular contribution? Be careful that you don’t describe what the team or group did when talking about a project, but what you actually did. Use the word “I,” not “we” when describing actions.
  - **Result: -** Describe the outcome of your actions and don’t be shy about taking credit for your behavior. What happened? How did the event end? What did you accomplish? What did you learn? Make sure your answer contains multiple positive results.

<br>

## Sample Questions and Examples:

<br>

**1. Relationships and Networks**

- Talk about a time when you had to work closely with someone whose personality was very different from yours.
- Give me an example of a time you faced a conflict while working on a team. How did you handle that?
- Describe a time when you struggled to build a relationship with someone important. How did you eventually overcome that?
- Give me an example of a time when you were able to successfully persuade someone to see things your way at work.

<br>

**2. Courage and Candor**

- Describe a time when you had to interact with a difficult client. What was the situation, and how did you handle it?
- Tell me about a time you needed to get information from someone who wasn’t very responsive. What did you do?

<br>


**3. Agility**

- Describe a time when your team or company was undergoing some change. How did that impact you, and how did you adapt?
- Tell me about the first job you ever had. What did you do to learn the ropes?
- Tell me about when the budget or priorities changes mid-stream.

<br>

**4. Initiative and Foresight**

- Describe a time when you saw some problem and took the initiative to correct it rather than waiting for someone else to do it.
- Tell me about a time you were dissatisfied in your work or the work of your team. What could have been done to make it better?

<br>

**5. Results Orientation**

- Tell me about a time you had to be very strategic in order to meet all your top priorities.
- Describe a long-term project that you managed. How did you keep everything moving along in a timely manner?
- Sometimes it’s just not possible to get everything on your to-do list done. Tell me about a time your responsibilities got a little overwhelming. What did you do?
