# 5.2 Python Homework

## Data Types

1. Create a file and name it 5_2-Homework
    - A Jupyter Notebook file would probably work best as you would want to type some answers to questions and code for this homework.
    - Decorate / beautify your markdown in any way your like.

<br>

2. Open a Markdown cell in your Jupyter Notebook and answer these questions please:
    - Use a markdown numbered list to answer these questions.
    - What is an algorithm?
    - Why is Python considered to be a high-level language?
    - Is Python a Natural or a Formal language?
    - Variable names may not start with certain characters - name two.
    - WHat is a Semantic error?
    - What is the #1 rule of coding / debugging?
    - list 5 Python reserved words.
    - add and name, a web link for any Python coding article, in your markdown cell

<br>

3. Open a code cell in your Jupyter Notebook and write the following code:
    - Write a multi-line comment with your name, favorite food, and dream job on 3 different lines.
    - assign 5 different data types to 5 different variables. At least one datatype must be a string.
    - print the length of your string.
    - print the the index value of the 4th character in your string.
    - create a new variable called savvy, and assign it the string with this phrase "Learning Data Analytics and Python is Awesome!"
    - return a range of characters that slices the above string from the beginning of  "ing" up to before "tics"
    - Replace "Awesome" with "great" in the string
    - Test and print the savvy string to see it contains "Python"
    - Create and assign 3 more variables called name, age and length using the multi-variable  naming method.
    - Format a new string called 'miniBio' using curly brackets to complete this phrase... "Hi my name is (name), I am so (tall) and (so) old today.
    - print 'miniBio'
    - cast and print the age variable to a float.

<br>

4. Save your file in your homework folder, and push it to GitHub.
    - Once you have complete all your homework for the week, create a ticket to let the TAs know you have completed it.
    - Remember to add the link to you homework, to the ticket.
