# SQL

---

# What is a database

## According to Oracle:

A database is an organized collection of structured information, or data, typically stored electronically in a computer system. A database is usually controlled by a database management system (DBMS). Together, the data and the DBMS, along with the applications that are associated with them, are referred to as a database system, often shortened to just database.  

---
## continued

Before the adoption of RDBMS systems flat files were often used for each table.

In Excel each tab could be thought of as a table and the workbook itself as a database.

In a modern DBMS the meta-data is also in tables, row, and columns. 

---

# SQL 

## Structured Query Language

Structured Query language came along as a methodology to simplify data retrieval from relational databases. 
SQL's advent created a paradigm shift away from rows to set based operations. 
It changed everything.

---

# Database Types

## Relational

- Data is stored in tables and the relationships between the tables can be defined and enforced by the DBMS. 
- Transactional integrity, if a transaction will update more than one table then all updates must succeed or the transaction will be rolled back. 
- Relational databases are most commonly used for transactional systems. 

---

## NoSQL

- Data can be stored in many different formats in a NoSQL environment. 
	- Common formats include: tables, json, and XML and BLOB
- Grew out of the need to capture tremendously high volume data flows
- Commonly used in experimental analytics.

---

# SQL Data Types

- Char - a fixed length string
- Varchar - variable length string
- Integer - whole numbers (can be signed or unsigned)
- Float - a floating point number (used for scientific calculations - do not use for financial calculations)
- Decimal - a fixed-point number


https://www.w3schools.com/sql/sql_datatypes.asp


NULL - is not a datatype

---

# SQLite Data Types

SQLite now supports the more detailed and restrictive typing found in other RDBMS systems but it started with Storage Classes. 

Each value stored in an SQLite database (or manipulated by the database engine) has one of the following storage classes:

---
## SQLite Storage Classes (Types)
-   **NULL**. The value is a NULL value.
-   **INTEGER**. The value is a signed integer
-   **REAL**. The value is a floating point value
-   **TEXT**. The value is a text string
-   **BLOB**. The value is a blob of data, stored exactly as it was input.

https://www.sqlite.org/datatype3.html

---

# Exercise One 

Prerequisites: 
- SQLite - https://www.sqlite.org/download.html
- DB Browser for SQLite - https://sqlitebrowser.org/dl/

Many IDEs exist for manipulating SQL databases
- HeidiSQL
- VS Code Extensions
- Commercial products like dbForge

---

## New Database

From the SQLite terminal:
1. Open SQLite.exe
	1. Microsoft does not recognize this program and will warn you.
2. You will start in "in memory" mode - this database is destroyed when the program closes.
3. Use `.backup practice` to save the file to disk.

---

## Create tables

### Departments
- DepartmentId Int Primary Key
- DepartmentName Text

``` sql 
create table Departments
	(DepartmentId int
	, DepartmentName text
	)
```

https://www.sqlite.org/lang_createtable.html

---

## Create tables 2

### Subjects
- SubjectId Int Primary Key
- SubjectName Text
- DepartmentId Int

### Students
- StudentId Int Primary Key
- StudentName Text 

---

## Create tables 3
### Grades
- StudentId Int Primary Key
- SubjectId Int
- Grade Int

_You might want to wait on creating these... there may be a better way in another slide or two..._

---

## Inserting Data

``` sql
insert into Departments
		(DepartmentId, DepartmentName) 
	values(1, "IT");

insert into Departments
		(DepartmentId, DepartmentName) 
	values(2, "Arts")
		,(3,"Spanish");

insert into Departments
		(DepartmentId, DepartmentName)
	values(4, "History")
		,(5,"Science")
		,(6, "Band")
		,(7,"StudyHall");
		
```

https://www.sqlite.org/lang_insert.html

---

# Exercise 2

## DB Browser
- Click on Open Database and select: `practice.sqlite`
- Click on create table and type out the column names, datatype, and attributes for each of the remaining tables. 

---
### DB Browser creates the code

``` sql
CREATE TABLE "Subjects" (
	"SubjectId"	INTEGER,
	"SubjectName"	TEXT,
	"DepartmentID"	INTEGER,
	PRIMARY KEY("SubjectId")
);
```

#### Do this for the remaining tables
- Students
- Grades

---

# SQL Assignment 

1. Using the data in the following md tables to add records to your new database
	- feel free to use the data view ide in DB Browser
	- for extra practice try writing insert statements
	- for those of you who want to experiment, try creating a csv file and use the import function to add these records
1. Write select statements to test your inserts.

---

## Inserting Data

### Subjects

| SubjectId  | SubjectName | DepartmentID |
| ---------- | ----------- | ------------ |
| 1 | Python      | 1            |
| 2 | Tableau						| 1 |
| 3 | Painting						| 2 |
| 4 | Spanish for travelers			| 3 |
| 5 | Spanish 200					| 3 |
| 6 | NASA during the Shuttle Era	| 4 |
| 7 | Chemistry						| 5 |
| 8 | Biology						| 5 |
| 9 | Jazz							| 6 |
|10 | Independant Study				| 7 |

---

### Students

| StudentId | StudentName |
| --------- | ----------- |
| 1         | Sarah       |
| 2         | Maria       |
| 3         | Brandon     |
| 4         | Stephen     |
| 5         | Ronnie      |
| 6         | Matthew     |
| 7         | Mariah      |
| 8         | Ray         |
| 9         | Brandi      |
| 10        | Hunter      |
| 11        | Sophia      |

---

### Grades

| SubjectId | StudentId | Grade |
| --------- | --------- | ----- |
| 1         | 1         | 85    |
| 3         | 1         | 90    |
| 6         | 1         | 78    |
| 2         | 2         | 99    |
| 4         | 2         | 87    |
| 7         | 2         | 77    |
|           |           |       |
...

There would be many more records to enter here but I think everyone is ready to move on.

---
