# Excel and Data Analytics

---

## What is Excel

A program by Microsoft that is used for recording, analyzing and visualizing data in the form of a spreadsheet.

---

## Why Excel

- Perform various math functions on large data sets
- You can search, sort, filter; makes it easier to clean
- Beautify data and present with charts & tables
- Reporting, accounting & analysis is easier
- Provides security

---

## Excel Is Huge

Let's play!

---

## Functions Reference

Microsoft maintains very detailed help documentation on the Office suite of products. 

https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/excel-functions-by-category-5f91f4e9-7b42-46d2-9bd1-63f26a86c0eb

Let's review a few with application to data analytics.

---
# Math Functions

---

## SUM

The **SUM** function adds values. You can add individual values, cell references or ranges or a mix of all three.

For example:

-   **=SUM(A2:A10)** Adds the values in cells A2:10.

-   **=SUM(A2:A10, C2:C10)** Adds the values in cells A2:10, as well as cells C2:C10.

https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/sum-function-043e1c7d-7726-4e80-8f32-07b23e057f89

---

## SUMIF

The SUMIF function allows you to aggregate data based on a selection criteria:

For example:

- =SUMIF(B29:B37,E30,C29:C37)



---

## SUMIFS

The SUMIF function allows you to aggregate data based on multiple selection criteria:

For example:

- =SUMIFS($C$42:$C$54,$B$42:$B$54,E45,$D$42:$D$54,F45)

---

# Logical Functions

---

## IF

The IF function is one of the most popular functions in Excel, and it allows you to make logical comparisons between a value and what you expect.

So an IF statement can have two results. The first result is if your comparison is True, the second if your comparison is False.

For example, =IF(C2=”Yes”,1,2) says IF(C2 = Yes, then return a 1, otherwise return a 2).

---

## AND

- =AND([logical1], [logical2], ...)
- If a number is greater than or smaller than another number or is equal to something.
- Produces “True” or “False”

---

## AND USING IF

- =IF(logical_test, [value_if_true], [value_if_false])
- Produces whatever outcome you need it to display if you don’t want “True” or “False”

---

## Or

- **OR**(logical1, [logical2], ...)
- The **OR** function returns TRUE if any of its arguments evaluate to TRUE, and returns FALSE if all of its arguments evaluate to FALSE.


---

## IFS



---

## XOR



---

# Statistical

---

## AVERAGEIF

---

## AVERAGEIFS

---

## COUNT

---

## COUNTA

---

## COUNTBLANK

---

## COUNTIF

---

## COUNTIFS

---

## MEDIAN

---

## MODE

---

## STDEV.P

---

## STDEV.S

---

# REFERENCE

---

## VLOOKUP

