# Interview Prep: In-Person Interview

## Preparation

- Review Your Resume
- Review the Job Description
- Review STAR Interview Prep document
- Research company by going to the company website. Be able to speak to some of the company’s strengths or major accomplishments. Use this information to form some of your questions.
- Ask yourself, why you would want to work for this company and then make certain you have done the research to answer that question.
- Ask yourself, what I need to know before I can accept this position, and then come prepared with those questions written out.
- Dress/Smoking
  - Interview Dress is always business professional. It is more important to look crisp than it is to wear a jacket and tie. Make certain you are wearing clothes that fit well and that are current.
  - Do not smoke on the way to the interview or outside of the building prior to the interview.
- Know the interviewer
  - Use LinkedIn to look up the people you will be interviewing with on LinkedIn to get a feel for their background, interests, connections, etc.
- Prepare a thank you note
- Bring With you…
  - A note Pad, with paper, with your questions written out
  - 3 copies of your resume- this should be the same version the interviewer has

<br>

## Actual interview

- Show up 15 minutes early. If you are not 15 minutes early, some manager will consider you late. If you arrive earlier, please wait until about 15 minutes prior to the interview before going in.
- Leave your cellphone in the car!
- When you meet the interviewer, have a firm handshake. It lets them know you that you are there for business. Call the interviewer by their first name.
- Early in the conversation ask the interviewer:
  - What is important to you as you’re making your hiring decision? And then USE this information to apply your background, skills and capabilities for the position
- Provide real life examples
- Be able to talk about your experience without looking at the resume. Say “I”, not “We” as much as possible. It speaks to your personal contribution to the project. They’re looking to hire YOU, not your previous team(s).
- Be honest- if you don’t have a particular skill, express willingness to learn new technologies and give an example of how you’ve done that in the past
- Be yourself- we spend 40+ hours with the people we work with. If someone makes a joke, it is ok to laugh. They need to know they are going to enjoy you as a person.
- Remember the role you are interviewing for
  - Try to make certain your examples line up with the role you are interviewing for. If you cannot provide an example with relevant experience that is fine, but try as often as you can to provide experiences that match the role.
- Ask for clarity if needed. Sometimes you get a question and there is more than one way to answer it. Ask for clarity if you need it.
- Rambling- If you feel like you are talking too much, you probably are. It is ok to wrap up and ask the interviewer if you have answered there question.
- Ask Your Questions
  - What makes someone successful in this group?
  - Why is this position available?
  - What is the greatest challenge in this position?
  - How do the applications you are working on affect other areas of the company?
  - Could you share with me a little about your experience and background?
  - What can I learn to help me “hit the ground running”?
  - What are the group goals for the year?
  - Be prepared to talk about your resume without referring to it and to address any gaps in the resume.
- Wrapping up the Interview
  - Do you have any concerns with my ability to do the job well?
    - This is your opportunity to overcome any objection they might have. No one will be better qualified to sell your skillset than you. Open the dialogue, address any concerns.
  - Ask what their timeline or process will be to make a final decision.
  - Show interest in the position- Make sure they know that you are interested in the position. Your goal is to receive an offer; you can decide whether you want the job at that point

  <br>

## Post interview

- Call us following the interview:
  - We will discuss the interview, we will talk about the types of questions that were asked, what your impression was of the interviewers, what your impression was of the company.
- Send us a hank you note for us to forward on:
  - You can have your thank you note 90% pre-written. Leave yourself room to customize your response, but if we can get it over to them quickly, it will impress them. No one has ever said, wow they got me that thank you note too fast.
