# Extract, Translate, and Load

The formal process used in Data Warehouse environments for gathering, cleaning and storing data to be used for later analysis. 

This process provides a framework that can be used in Data Analytics and reporting over time. 

---

# Ingesting data using DB Browser

1. Create a new database - I am calling mine `cmspdp.sqlite`
1. Use the File / Import command and select `plan information sample.txt`
1. Stop - notice anything wrong
1. Set your import prferences
    1. Name your table (you don't want spaces)
    1. Column names
    1. Field seperator
    1. Quote character
1. Now you can run the import.

---

# Reviewing your data

What do you notice first?

I notice the repeating values.

This is sometimes the correct answer - only you can decided. I chose to normalize this data. 

---

# Second issue

The plan id and segment id have been converted to integers. How can this cause a problem?

Integers can't store leading zeros. 

This means we cannot link from our cleaned table to our source table if we let this stand. 

---

# Exploring using the "don't detect option"

This feature is unique to SQLite. The table created by this method does not have data types. 

Crazy!

No data types. 

Yet this is perfect for a staging table. 

---

# What are these datatypes?

SQLite's support of strong data types and data classes means that we can have the best of both worlds. 

We can limit the data when we know specifics about it or we can leave it loose for testing and prototyping. 

## Warning

You will want to use strong typing before sending your data to a reporting platform. Doing this will prevent errors or faulty analysis in the presentation layer. 

---

# Let's create a table from what we have learned so far. 

``` sql
create table planInformation (
	Id INTEGER PRIMARY KEY
	,contractId char(5)
	,planId char(3)
	,segmentId char(3)
	,contractName TEXT
	,planName TEXT
	,formularyId char(8)
	,premium decimal(12,4)
	,deductible decimal(12,4)
	,icl decimal(12,4)
	,pharmacyDataSupressed char(1)
	)

```

---

# And load our data (Insert into)

``` sql

insert into planInformation (
	contractId
	,planId
	,segmentId
	,contractName
	,planName
	,formularyId
	,premium
	,deductible
	,icl
    ,snp
	,pharmacyDataSupressed
	)
select distinct 
	CONTRACT_ID
	,PLAN_ID
	,SEGMENT_ID
	,CONTRACT_NAME
	,PLAN_NAME
	,FORMULARY_ID
	,PREMIUM
	,DEDUCTIBLE
	,ICL
    ,SNP
	,PLAN_SUPPRESSED_YN
	from [plan information sample]
	
```

# Why do we have an id column with data?

If we create a column with the combination of INTEGER and PRIMARY KEY SQLite will assign a number if a null is inserted. 

https://www.sqlite.org/autoinc.html

---

# Time to create our location table

``` sql

create table planInformationLocation (
	planId INTEGER NOT NULL
	,maRegionCode char(2)
	,pdpRegionCode char(2)
	,stateCode char(2)
	,countyCode char(5)
	)
	
```

---

# And insert our data

``` sql

insert into planInformationLocation (
	planId
	, maRegionCode
	, pdpRegionCode
	, stateCode
	, countyCode
	)
select p.id
	,ps.MA_REGION_CODE
	,ps.PDP_REGION_CODE
	,ps.STATE
	,ps.COUNTY_CODE
	from [plan information sample] ps
		inner join planInformation p
			on ps.CONTRACT_ID = p.contractId
			and ps.PLAN_ID = p.planId
			and ps.SEGMENT_ID = p.segmentId

```

---

# Next table - An exercise

Some might call it home work.

## Beneficiary Cost

1. Using file import without autodetecting create a staging table
1. Determine if this table requires normalization
1. Write a create table script for your final table
    1. Rename columns as needed
    1. Set datatypes
    1. Think about indexes and keys
1. Write an insert query to translate the data from the staging table into the final table.

## Extra credit

Move on to the remaining tables:
1. basic drugs formulary
1. product package ndc
1. plan information zip

--- 

# Checking our progress.

This session covered the following stories and tasks:

## Create a new database
1. Using the tool of your choice create a new sqlite database

## Import data from csv files
1. Pull the sample data from the repo
1. Copy the files to the directory where your 
1. Import the following tables:
    1. plan information sample.txt
    1. beneficiary cost file sample.txt

## Use SQL to create key column and map relationships
1. Our sample data uses a three column primary key let's simplify that by creating a new primary key in the plan information table.
1. The plan information table can be normalized
    1. Write a select statement for each part of the table that represents a normalized recordset
    1. Use your select statements to populate two new tables

---
