# Checking our progress.

Last session covered the following stories and tasks:

## Create a new database
1. Using the tool of your choice create a new sqlite database

--- 

## Import data from csv files
1. Pull the sample data from the repo
1. Copy the files to the directory where you're working
    1. Optional
1. Import the following tables:
    1. plan information sample.txt
    1. beneficiary cost file sample.txt

--- 

## Use SQL to create key column and map relationships
1. Our sample data uses a three column primary key let's simplify that by creating a new primary key in the plan information table.
1. The plan information table can be normalized
    1. Write a select statement for each part of the table that represents a normalized recordset
    1. Use your select statements to populate two new tables

---

# This session will cover:

## Import data from csv files
1. basic drugs formulary file.txt
1. product package ndc.csv
1. plan information zip.csv

---

## Use SQL to create key column and map relationships
1. Translate the three part key to the new id column for:
    1. beneficiary cost

---

## Review the relationships between all of the tables.

---

# Capstone workflow

This is a good time to discuss how the class sessions work for the Capstone project. Most capstone evenings with be moderated self-study evenings.

Tonight we will jump into that work flow and work on the beneficiary cost table independantly.

---

# Allow 20 - 30 minuts for self study

---

# Okay - Welcome back

How does your staging table look?

How about your final table?

---

# One way to create a beneficiary table:

(I decided that )